Add JavaScript Documentation around setting up Webpack, Babel, and Building (#13629)
WordPress/gutenberg: docs/designers-developers/developers/tutorials/javascript/js-build-setup.md

# JavaScript Build Setup

> This page covers how to setup your development environment to use the ESNext syntax. This documentation covers development for your plugin to work with Gutenberg, to setup a development environment to work directly on Gutenberg, see the [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) documentation.

Reviewer: How about explaining here what `ESNext` is? Something along the lines of:

```suggestion
This page covers how to set up your development environment to use the ESNext syntax. We call ESNext to JavaScript code written using features that are only available in a specification greater than ECMAScript 5 (ES5 for short) or that includes custom syntax such as [JSX](https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html).

This documentation covers development for your plugin to work with Gutenberg, to setup a development environment to work directly on Gutenberg, see the [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) documentation.
```

Reviewer 2: Instead of trying to explain here, would it be more helpful to link to a resource on what ESNext is?

Reviewer: That may be a good option as well, I just don't know any that I like. Do you have a particular one in mind? As long as it's not assumed the reader already knows what ESNext is, I'm fine.

Reviewer 2: No I didn't have a particular one in mind but maybe this would be sufficient: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ECMAScript#ES.Next?  Or maybe quote from there and link to it as the source?

Reviewer: Ah, I see. We use ESNext through the documentation with a different meaning, though (ES>=6 plus JSX).

Author: Fro reference this flows in the JavaScript tutorial with the definitions defined a page or two earlier. I update that page with a link here, but can also include a link back for reference if people land on this page prior to visiting the other.

Page is here: https://wordpress.org/gutenberg/handbook/designers-developers/developers/tutorials/javascript/versions-and-building/

Reviewer 3: I think any time we can cross-link, the better.

Maybe we can go even further with expanding the glossary?

For simpler code, you can write JavaScript using ESNext and JSX syntax. This requires a transformation step to convert that syntax which a web browser may not understand, to one that it will.  Webpack and babel are the tools that perform this transformation step.

[Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) is a pluggable tool that processes JavaScript creating a compiled bundle that runs in a browser. [Babel](https://babeljs.io/) transforms JavaScript from one format to another. You use Babel as a plugin to Webpack to transform both ESNext and JSX to JavaScript.

## Quick Start

For a quick start, you can use one of the examples from the [Gutenberg Examples repository](https://github.com/wordpress/gutenberg-examples/). Each one of the `-esnext` directories contain the necessary files for working with ESNext and JSX.

## Setup

Both Webpack and Babel are tools written in JavaScript and run using [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/). Node.js is a runtime environment for JavaScript outside of a browser. Simply put, node allows you to run JavaScript code on the command-line.

> First step is setting up node for your development environment. This is dependent on your operating system, there are node packages available for most package systems. If you are using one of the package systems, setup can be as straight-forward as:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First, you need to set up node for your development environment. The steps required change depending on your operating system, but there are node packages available for most package systems. If you have a package manager, setup can be as straight-forward as:
```

```
macOS: brew install node
Windows: choco install node
Ubuntu: apt install node

> ```

Reviewer 3: Just to avoid confusion about the commands, maybe format like:

```md
+ macOS: `brew install node`
+ Windows: `choco install node`
+ Ubuntu: `apt install node`
```

Reviewer 3: (This separates the command from the OS)

Author: :+1:

Additionally, the [Node.js download page](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) includes installers and binaries.

**Note:** The build tools and process occur on the command-line, so some basic familiarity using a terminal application is required. Some text editors have a terminal built-in which is fine to use, Visual Studio Code editor is one popular example.

> ### Node Package Manager

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Node Package Manager (npm)
```

> The Node Package Manager (npm) is a tool included with node. NPM allows you to install and manage JavaScript packages using the package.json definition file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Node Package Manager (npm) is a tool included with node. npm allows you to install and manage JavaScript packages. npm can also generate and process a special file called `package.json`, which contains some information about your project and the packages your project uses.
```

Reviewer 3: My understanding is that `npm` should always be written as lowercase, even when at the start of a sentence.

> First, create a directory to work in.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To start a new node project, first create a directory to work in.
```

```
mkdir myguten-block
```

> You create a new package.json using: `npm init`.  This will walk you through creating a file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You create a new package.json using `npm init`.  This will walk you through creating your package.json file:
```

```
$ npm init

package name: (myguten-block) myguten-block
version: (1.0.0)
description: Test block
entry point: (index.js) block.js
test command:
git repository:
keywords:
author: mkaz
license: (ISC) GPL-2.0-only
About to write to /home/mkaz/src/wp/scratch/package.json:

{
  "name": "myguten-block",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "Test block",
  "main": "block.js",
  "scripts": {
    "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
  },
  "author": "mkaz",
  "license": "GPL-2.0-only"
}

Is this OK? (yes) yes
```

## Webpack & Babel

> The next step is to install webpack. You can install packages using the npm command: `npm install`. If you pass the `--save` parameter, npm will write the package as a dependency in package.json file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The next step is to install webpack. You can install packages using the npm command `npm install`. If you pass the `--save` parameter, npm will write the package as a dependency in package.json file.
```

> Run: `npm install --save webpack`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Run `npm install --save webpack`
```

After installing, a `node_modules` directory is created with the webpack module and its dependencies.

> Also, if you look at package.json file it will include a new section:

Reviewer 3: Need a newline below this

Author: :+1:

```json
"dependencies": {
	"webpack": "^4.29.0"
}
```

Next, you configure webpack to process the `block.js` file and run babel to transform the JSX.

Create the file `webpack.config.js`

```js
// sets mode webpack runs under

> const NODE_ENV = process.env.NODE_ENV || 'development';

Reviewer 4: In #12685 @griffbrad started exploring how we could extract some bits of Webpack config to make it even simpler. We also discussed during [weekly core JS chat last week](https://make.wordpress.org/core/2019/01/23/javascript-chat-summary-january-22nd-2019/ ) the following:

> The discussion around build and start focused mostly on the question how to approach default configuration for plugins and themes. We’re considering to extract parts of the Webpack config as npm package to simplify setup for plugin developers. This would also allow to provide a default config for `@wordpress/scripts` and proposed scripts. To provide flexibility, it was raised that an eventual Webpack config package could have 3 types of exports:
> 
> A full webpack config with a simple preset entries map for simple starter plugins ( `front.js`, `admin.js`, `blocks.js` or something like that ) to provide a simple zero-config option.
> A function that takes an entries map and outputs the full webpack config with recommended values.
> Each part of the recommended config as their own keys.

We probably have to leave this manual as is, however we should keep in mind that we want to make it simpler for everyone as soon as possible :)

Author: :+1:

module.exports = {
	mode: NODE_ENV,

	// entry is the source script
	entry: './block.js',

	// output is where to write the built file
	output: {
		path: __dirname,
		filename: 'block.build.js',
	},
	module: {
		// the list of rules used to process files
		// this looks for .js files, exclude files
		// in node_modules directory, and uses the
		// babel-loader to process
		rules: [
			{
				test: /.js$/,
				exclude: /node_modules/,
				loader: 'babel-loader',
			},
		],
	},
};
```

> Next, you need to install babel, the webpack loader, and the JSX plugin using:

Reviewer 3: newline below here

Author: :+1:

```

> npm install --save babel-loader babel-core babel-plugin-transform-react-jsx

Reviewer 5: Instead of doing this, why not use our scripts package instead. cc @gziolo. All these configs should be automatic for people. They'd only have to learn one thing.

Author: :+1: Will address, thanks!

```

> You configure babel by creating a `.babelrc` file:

Reviewer 3: I'll stop calling these out by any time you have a paragraph it needs a newline before and after. Code fences need newlines too

Author: :+1:

```
{
	"plugins": [
		[ "transform-react-jsx", {
			"pragma": "wp.element.createElement"
		} ]
	]
}
```
The pragma setting replaces the function JSX uses for transformation, the `wp.element.createElement` is an equivalent wrapper of `React.createElement` which is the default function for JSX.

With both configs in place, you can now run webpack.

> First you need a basic block.js to build. Create `block.js`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First you need a basic block.js to build. Create `block.js` with the following content:
```

```js
const { registerBlockType } = wp.blocks;

registerBlockType( 'myguten/test-block', {
	title: 'Basic Example',
	icon: 'smiley',
	category: 'layout',
	edit() {
		return <div>Hola mundo!</div>;
	},
	save() {
		return <div>Hola mundo!</div>;
	},
} );
```

To configure npm to run a script, you use the scripts section in `package.json` webpack:
```json
  "scripts": {
    "build": "webpack"
  },
```

You can then run the build using: `npm run build`

> Afterwards, you will see the build file created at: `block.build.js`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After the build finishes, you will see the built file created at `block.build.js`.
```

## Finishing Touches

### Development Mode

The basics are in place to build. You might of noticed the webpack.config.js set a default mode to "development". Webpack has the ability to run in a "production" mode which shrinks the code down, but makes it difficult to read.

> The mode is setup so it can be configured using environment variables, this is easiest to add in the scripts section of `package.json`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The mode is setup so it can be configured using environment variables, which can be added in the scripts section of `package.json`.
```

> Update scripts section to:

Reviewer 3: I'd just remove this line

Author: :+1:

```json
  "scripts": {

>     "dev": "webpack --watch",

Reviewer 4: See how it is handled in Gutenberg with `start` script from `wp-scripts` exposed by `@wordpress/scripts` package:

https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/master/package.json#L158

Author: Ah, I looked briefly at the wp-scripts I missed both start and build, since they weren't included in the example block at the top, my fault for not scrolling. I'll update both using the scripts.

:+1:

Author: As discussed on Slack, will address this when the wp-scripts are published.
Created issue #13712 to track

>     "build": "cross-env NODE_ENV=production webpack"

Reviewer 4: See how it is handled in Gutenberg with `build` script from `wp-scripts` exposed by `@wordpress/scripts` package:

https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/master/package.json#L152

  },
```

> This sets the environment variables, but different environment handle setting in different ways, so using the `cross-env` helper module handles this. Be sure to install using: `npm install --save cross-env`

Reviewer 4: If we hide it behind `@wordpress/scripts` we can remove all the complexity explained here.

By the way, I just realized that `start` and `build` aren't published to npm yet :(

https://unpkg.com/@wordpress/scripts@2.5.0/

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This sets the environment variables, but different environments handle these setting in different ways. Using the `cross-env` helper module can help to handle this. Be sure to install the `cross-env` package using `npm install --save cross-env`.
```

> Additionally, webpack has a `--watch` flag that will keep the process running, watching for any changes to the `block.js` file and update as changes occur. This is useful during development, you start the build running using `npm run dev` in a terminal. You can then edit away in your text editor and each save, webpack will automatically build. You can then use the familiar edit-save,-reload development process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Additionally, webpack has a `--watch` flag that will keep the process running, watching for any changes to the `block.js` file and re-building as changes occur. This is useful during development, when you might have a lot of changes in progress.

You can start the watcher by running `npm run dev` in a terminal. You can then edit away in your text editor; after each save, webpack will automatically build. You can then use the familiar edit/save/reload development process.
```

> **Note:** keep an eye on your terminal for any errors. If you make a typo, or syntax error, the build will fail and the error will be in the terminal.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Note:** keep an eye on your terminal for any errors. If you make a typo or syntax error, the build will fail and the error will be in the terminal.
```

> ### Babel Browser TargetingT

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Babel Browser Targeting
```

> Babel has the ability to build JavaScript using rules that target certain browsers and versions. By setting a reasonable set of modern browsers allows Babel to optimize the JavaScript it generates.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Babel has the ability to build JavaScript using rules that target certain browsers and versions. By setting a reasonable set of modern browsers, Babel can optimize the JavaScript it generates.
```

WordPress has a preset default you can use to target the minimum supported browsers by WordPress.

> Install the module using: `npm install --save @wordpress/babel-preset-default`

Reviewer 4: This should use `--save-dev`.

Author: Agreed, I had written it with the dev flag first and it was becoming verbose explaining. I'm trying to gear the tutorial for someone who has no experience with node/npm - so trying not to do too much at once. The changes using wp-scripts should help too, I'll have another pass at this one.

> You then update `.babelrc` adding a "presets" section:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You then update `.babelrc` by adding a "presets" section:
```

```
{

> 	"presets": [ "@wordpress/babel-preset-default" ],

Reviewer 4: It's okey for now, but we want to make it even easier. See: https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/13540

Author: :+1: Cool, can update when ready

	"plugins": [
		[ "transform-react-jsx", {
			"pragma": "wp.element.createElement"
		} ]
	]
}
```

### Source Control

> You should exclude `node_modules/` from your source control, the files can be recreated any time by running `npm install`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Because a typical `node_modules` folder will contain thousands of files that change with every software update, you should exclude `node_modules/` from your source control. If you ever start from a fresh clone, simply run `npm install` in the same folder your `package.json` is located to pull your required packages.
```

> Likewise, you do not need to include `node_modules` or any of the above configuration files in your plugin. **Be sure to enqueue the `block.build.js` file** in your plugin PHP. This is the only JavaScript file needed for your block to run.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Likewise, you do not need to include `node_modules` or any of the above configuration files in your plugin because they will be bundled inside the file that webpack builds. **Be sure to enqueue the `block.build.js` file** in your plugin PHP. This is the only JavaScript file needed for your block to run.
```

## Summary

> Yes, the initial setup is rather tedious, there are numerous different tools and configs. However, as the quick start alluded to, copying an existing config is the typical way most people start.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Yes, the initial setup is rather tedious, and there are a number of different tools and configs to learn. However, as the quick start alluded to, copying an existing config is the typical way most people start.
```

# JavaScript Build Setup

This page covers how to set up your development environment to use the ESNext syntax. We call ESNext to JavaScript code written using features that are only available in a specification greater than ECMAScript 5 (ES5 for short) or that includes custom syntax such as [JSX](https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html).

This documentation covers development for your plugin to work with Gutenberg, to setup a development environment to work directly on Gutenberg, see the [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) documentation.

> For simpler code, you can write JavaScript using ESNext and JSX syntax. This requires a transformation step to convert that syntax which a web browser may not understand, to one that it will.  Webpack and babel are the tools that perform this transformation step.

Reviewer 6: The word _simpler_ at the start of this paragraph is the only hint as to _why_ a developer would adopt ESNext and would bother with a build set-up. I think we can improve the value proposition, and IMO explain upfront the trade-offs involved (i.e. here's what you get out of a build set-up, but also here's how you know it's right for you).

Author: I expanded on the explanation on why to use ESNext and JSX.
Take a look and let me know if there is anything additional you'd like to see.

Reviewer 6: Thanks, looks nice.

> For simpler code, you can write JavaScript using ESNext and JSX syntax. This requires a transformation step to convert that syntax which a web browser may not understand, to one that it will.  Webpack and babel are the tools that perform this transformation step.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
For simpler code, you can write JavaScript using ESNext and JSX syntax. This requires a transformation step to convert that syntax, which a web browser may not understand, to one that it will. Webpack and Babel are the tools that perform this transformation step.
```

[Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) is a pluggable tool that processes JavaScript creating a compiled bundle that runs in a browser. [Babel](https://babeljs.io/) transforms JavaScript from one format to another. You use Babel as a plugin to Webpack to transform both ESNext and JSX to JavaScript.

## Quick Start

For a quick start, you can use one of the examples from the [Gutenberg Examples repository](https://github.com/wordpress/gutenberg-examples/). Each one of the `-esnext` directories contain the necessary files for working with ESNext and JSX.

## Setup

> Both Webpack and Babel are tools written in JavaScript and run using [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/). Node.js is a runtime environment for JavaScript outside of a browser. Simply put, node allows you to run JavaScript code on the command-line.

Reviewer 6: I suggest starting the paragraph with the motivation:

_In order to run Webpack and Babel, you'll need Node.js. […]_

Minor: for consistency, replace "node" with "Node.js". Alternatively, introduce it as "_Node.js (node)_" and from then on use _node_.

Author: Added (node) after first use

First, you need to set up node for your development environment. The steps required change depending on your operating system, but if you have a package manager installed, setup can be as straightforward as:

- Ubuntu: `apt install node`
- macOS: `brew install node`
- Windows: `choco install node`

Additionally, the [Node.js download page](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) includes installers and binaries.

> **Note:** The build tools and process occur on the command-line, so some basic familiarity using a terminal application is required. Some text editors have a terminal built-in which is fine to use, Visual Studio Code editor is one popular example.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Note:** The build tools and process occur on the command-line, so some basic familiarity using a terminal application is required. Some text editors have a terminal built-in which is fine to use; Visual Studio Code and PhpStorm are two popular options.
```

### Node Package Manager (npm)

The Node Package Manager (npm) is a tool included with node. npm allows you to install and manage JavaScript packages. npm can also generate and process a special file called `package.json`, which contains some information about your project and the packages your project uses.

To start a new node project, first create a directory to work in.

```
mkdir myguten-block
```

You create a new package.json using `npm init`.  This will walk you through creating your package.json file:

```

> $ npm init

Reviewer 6: I'm fine with the leading dollar sign to represent the system's terminal prompt, but if we choose it then:

* It must be used consistently in all snippets concerning system commands.
* It should be introduced as a documentation concept, lest a user type the symbol in.

Author: I removed the `$` and added a brief explanation that it is run in terminal. The `$` wasn't used elsewhere on page, so for consistency makes sense to remove.

Also, if you look at package.json file it will include a new section:

```json
"dependencies": {
	"webpack": "^4.29.0"
}
```

## Webpack & Babel

You configure webpack to process the `block.js` file and run babel to transform the JSX.

Create the file `webpack.config.js`

```js
// sets mode webpack runs under
const NODE_ENV = process.env.NODE_ENV || 'development';

module.exports = {
	mode: NODE_ENV,

	// entry is the source script
	entry: './block.js',

	// output is where to write the built file
	output: {
		path: __dirname,
		filename: 'block.build.js',
	},
	module: {
		// the list of rules used to process files
		// this looks for .js files, exclude files
		// in node_modules directory, and uses the
		// babel-loader to process
		rules: [
			{
				test: /.js$/,
				exclude: /node_modules/,
				loader: 'babel-loader',
			},
		],
	},
};
```

Next, you need to install babel, the webpack loader, and the JSX plugin using:

```
npm install --save babel-loader babel-core babel-plugin-transform-react-jsx
```

You configure babel by creating a `.babelrc` file:

```
{
	"plugins": [
		[ "transform-react-jsx", {
			"pragma": "wp.element.createElement"
		} ]
	]
}
```

> The pragma setting replaces the function JSX uses for transformation, the `wp.element.createElement` is an equivalent wrapper of `React.createElement` which is the default function for JSX.

Reviewer 6: I suggest something more concrete, in case the user doesn't have a lot of prior React experience, e.g.

_This pragma setting instructs Babel that any JSX syntax such as `<Hello />` should be transformed into `wp.element.createElement( Hello )`._ The name of the setting (`transform-react-jsx`) is derived from the fact that it overrides the default assumption to transform to `React.createElement( Hello )`.

Author: :+1:

With both configs in place, you can now run webpack.

First you need a basic block.js to build. Create `block.js` with the following content:

```js
const { registerBlockType } = wp.blocks;

registerBlockType( 'myguten/test-block', {
	title: 'Basic Example',
	icon: 'smiley',
	category: 'layout',
	edit() {

> 		return <div>Hola mundo!</div>;

Reviewer 6: This is me being super nit-picky, but I'd like to see the vocative comma in use!

```suggestion
		return <div>Hola, mundo!</div>;
```

	},
	save() {

> 		return <div>Hola mundo!</div>;

Reviewer 6: Same:

```suggestion
		return <div>Hola, mundo!</div>;
```

# JavaScript Build Setup

> This page covers how to set up your development environment to use the ESNext syntax. ESNext is JavaScript code written using features that are only available in a specification greater than ECMAScript 5 (ES5 for short) or that includes custom syntax such as [JSX](https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This page covers how to set up your development environment to use the ESNext syntax. ESNext is JavaScript code written using features that are only available in a specification greater than ECMAScript 5 (ES5 for short) or that includes a custom syntax such as [JSX](https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html).
```

> This documentation covers development for your plugin to work with Gutenberg. If you want to setup a development environment for developing Gutenberg, see the [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) documentation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This documentation covers development for your plugin to work with Gutenberg. If you want to setup a development environment for developing Gutenberg itself, see the [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) documentation.
```

> ESNext and JSX syntaxes are not valid JavaScript that all browsers can interpret and run. This requires a transformation step to convert to valid code a browser can run. There are a few reasons to use ESNext and the extra step. First, it makes for simpler code that is easier to read and write. Using a transformation step allows for tools to optimize the code to work on the widest variety of browsers. Also, by using a build step you can organize your code into smaller modules and files that can be bundled together into a single download.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Most browsers can not interpret or run ESNext and JSX syntaxes, so we use a transformation step to convert these syntaxes to code that browsers can understand.

There are a few reasons to use ESNext and the extra step. First, it makes for simpler code that is easier to read and write. Using a transformation step allows for tools to optimize the code to work on the widest variety of browsers. Also, by using a build step you can organize your code into smaller modules and files that can be bundled together into a single download.
```

> Webpack and Babel are the tools that perform this transformation or build step.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are many tools that can perform this transformation or build step, but in this tutorial we will focus on Webpack and Babel.
```

```
npm init

package name: (myguten-block) myguten-block
version: (1.0.0)
description: Test block
entry point: (index.js) block.js
test command:
git repository:
keywords:
author: mkaz
license: (ISC) GPL-2.0-only
About to write to /home/mkaz/src/wp/scratch/package.json:

{
  "name": "myguten-block",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "Test block",
  "main": "block.js",
  "scripts": {
    "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
  },
  "author": "mkaz",
  "license": "GPL-2.0-only"
}

Is this OK? (yes) yes
```

### Using npm to install packages

The next step is to install the packages required. You can install packages using the npm command `npm install`. If you pass the `--save-dev` parameter, npm will write the package as a dev dependency in the package.json file.

Run `npm install --save-dev webpack`

After installing, a `node_modules` directory is created with the webpack module and its dependencies.

Also, if you look at package.json file it will include a new section:

```json
"dependencies": {
	"webpack": "^4.29.0"
}
```

## Webpack & Babel

> You configure webpack to process the `block.js` file and run babel to transform the JSX.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Next, we will configure webpack to process the `block.js` file and run babel to transform the JSX within it.
```

			},
		],
	},
};
```

Next, you need to install babel, the webpack loader, and the JSX plugin using:

```
npm install --save babel-loader babel-core babel-plugin-transform-react-jsx
```

You configure babel by creating a `.babelrc` file:

```
{
	"plugins": [
		[ "transform-react-jsx", {
			"pragma": "wp.element.createElement"
		} ]
	]
}
```

This pragma setting instructs Babel that any JSX syntax such as `<Hello />` should be transformed into `wp.element.createElement( Hello )`. The name of the setting (`transform-react-jsx`) is derived from the fact that it overrides the default assumption to transform to `React.createElement( Hello )`.

With both configs in place, you can now run webpack.

First you need a basic block.js to build. Create `block.js` with the following content:

```js
const { registerBlockType } = wp.blocks;

registerBlockType( 'myguten/test-block', {
	title: 'Basic Example',
	icon: 'smiley',
	category: 'layout',
	edit() {
		return <div>Hola, mundo!</div>;
	},
	save() {
		return <div>Hola, mundo!</div>;
	},
} );
```

To configure npm to run a script, you use the scripts section in `package.json` webpack:

```json
  "scripts": {
    "build": "webpack"
  },
```

> You can then run the build using: `npm run build`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can then run the build using: `npm run build`.
```

After the build finishes, you will see the built file created at `block.build.js`.

## Finishing Touches

### Development Mode

> The basics are in place to build. You might of noticed the webpack.config.js set a default mode to "development". Webpack has the ability to run in a "production" mode which shrinks the code down, but makes it difficult to read.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The basics are in place to build. You might have noticed the webpack.config.js sets a default mode of "development". Webpack can also run in a "production" mode, which shrinks the code down so it downloads faster, but makes it difficult to read.
```

The mode is setup so it can be configured using environment variables, which can be added in the scripts section of `package.json`.

```json
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "webpack --watch",
    "build": "cross-env NODE_ENV=production webpack"
  },
```

> This sets the environment variables, but different environments handle these setting in different ways. Using the `cross-env` helper module can help to handle this. Be sure to install the `cross-env` package using `npm install --save cross-env`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This sets the environment variables, but different environments handle these settings in different ways. Using the `cross-env` helper module can help to handle this. Be sure to install the `cross-env` package using `npm install --save cross-env`.
```

	"plugins": [
		[ "transform-react-jsx", {
			"pragma": "wp.element.createElement"
		} ]
	]
}
```

### Source Control

Because a typical `node_modules` folder will contain thousands of files that change with every software update, you should exclude `node_modules/` from your source control. If you ever start from a fresh clone, simply run `npm install` in the same folder your `package.json` is located to pull your required packages.

Likewise, you do not need to include `node_modules` or any of the above configuration files in your plugin because they will be bundled inside the file that webpack builds. **Be sure to enqueue the `block.build.js` file** in your plugin PHP. This is the only JavaScript file needed for your block to run.

## Summary

Yes, the initial setup is rather tedious, and there are a number of different tools and configs to learn. However, as the quick start alluded to, copying an existing config is the typical way most people start.

With a setup in place, the standard workflow is:

- Install dependencies: `npm install`
- Start development builds: `npm run dev`
- Develop. Test. Repeat.
- Create production build: `npm run build`

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
